---
layout: page
title: Android support for Webrogue
---

Webrogue supports compiling WRAPPs to APK files for Android.

`webrogue-default-runtime` utility is not available for Android.
Webrogue offers app named just "Webrogue" instead.

To compile WRAPP to Android application, you need Android SDK 35 or later and NDK 27.2.12479018 or later.
Path to Android SDK should be specified using `--sdk` option or `ANDROID_HOME` environment variable.
You can compile Android application with following command:

```webrogue-aot-compiler android gradle <WRAPP_PATH> <BUILD_DIR> --sdk <PATH>```

Once again, `--sdk` option is not mandatory if `ANDROID_HOME` environment variable is available.
To optionally signing your APK, use `--keystore-path`, `--store-password` `--key-password` and `--key-alias` options.

Only AArch64 CPUs are currently supported.
Most Android devices are AArch64-based.
Exceptions are some old devices, ultra low-end devices, and many emulators.

# Implementation details
Webrogue generates Gradle Android project (initially generated by Android Studio) to build Android apps.
Webrogue links compiled object, static libraries shipped with `webrogue-default-runtime`, and Android NDK libraries.
TODO check if NDK libraries can also be included in `webrogue-default-runtime`, so developers can build Android Apps without installing NDK at all.

Android devices ships OpenGL ES drives, so no graphics emulation layer is required.

WRAPP is bundled as uncompressed Android asset.
It means it is not required to unpack it to provide non-sequential access.
WRAPP itself is a compressed file format, so lack of asset compression doesn't increases resulting APK size.
